So, figuring out how you're going to get fresh,
drinkable water when you're camping is a pretty
big concern.
If you're primitive camping, meaning that
you're hiking in a couple of miles from where
you parked your car, then you're probably
not going to be able to carry all the water
that you need in with you.
I did used to do that when I first started
camping, just because it seemed like the most
comfortable and safest way to go.
I had a couple of five-gallon jugs and I would
fill them before I left.
It meant taking a lot of breaks when we were
hiking in, but at the same time, I knew the
water was safe to drink and I just knew that
I could bring in everything that I possibly
wanted and it just made me feel really comfortable.
The other cool thing about bringing in big
jugs of water is you can tie rope around them
and hang them from trees and then you've got
running water.
So, that's kind of neat.
Any water that you find when you're camping,
in a river, or a lake, or a stream, you're
not going to be able to drink, because it's
filled with bacteria and viruses.
You can boil all that water.
So, if you boil water for five minutes, then
it's safe to drink.
The thing is, then you've got hot water.
You also are going to use up a lot of your
firewood if you have to boil all the water
you want to drink.
So it's not very practical to do, but it can
be done.
If you boil your water, you should just plan
on bringing something to store the water in
once it's boiled, and let it cool.
The other thing you can invest in is a purifier
or a filter.
You're looking at spending between 50 and
200 bucks on something like that, but that's
probably the safest, most reliable and most
practical way to make sure that the water
that you find is drinkable and safe for you
to drink.
There's lots of different options on the market.
The one that I is a pump.
So it's a filter.
The water runs through a tube, through the
filter, and into the container you're going
to use for drinking, but you have to pump
all the water.
That's the part, that's the downside to the
filter that I have.
On the other hand, there's something called
a steripen, which is awesome.
It's basically sterilizing all the water that
it's placed into.
That's on the expensive end of the spectrum.
Lastly, you should probably plan for a worst-case
scenario situation and bring some iodine tablets.
They'll purify any water.
They're going to make the water taste like
iodine, and it's also not safe for you to
consume large amounts of iodine, so the tablets
like that are just used in emergency situations.
When it comes to purifying water, water is
a necessity, you're going to need it, so it's
just a matter of figuring out what solution
you're comfortable with, in terms of ease
when you're camping and how much money you
want to spend.